If one were to picture
the blockchain ecosystem,
the next layer surrounding
its development would
be crypto finance.
Crypto finance is
a dynamic and developing area
of the blockchain ecosystem that
touches all aspects
of the businesses
that operate within an
around the blockchain.
Crypto finance includes payments,
privacy, wallets, exchanges,
and other components
known as stable coins,
different types of storage,
and merchants that use
the cryptocurrency to
operate their businesses.
Cryptocurrency payments are
an important part
of crypto finance.
Recall that the blockchain allows
us to store and transfer value.
Cryptocurrency payments
allow us to manage
the ownership and transfer
of cryptocurrencies.
These payments companies that
work in the crypto space,
effectuate real-time, non-cash
payments between entities.
Blockchain technology is
particularly attractive
for this process because
it is decentralized,
and unlike other payments systems
avoids what's known as
a single point of failure.
Cryptocurrency payments
eliminate the role
of third parties and delays.
Cryptocurrency
privacy companies are
another important part
of crypto finance.
These privacy companies
create privacy by
obscuring the identity of
the sender of a payment.
They use what are known
as ring signatures or
digital signatures that can be
performed by
any member of a group.
As a result, the transactions on
cryptocurrency cannot be linked
to specific real identity.
When most people think of
money they think of their wallet,
which they use to keep it safe.
There are wallets in the
cryptocurrency world as well,
but they're very different.
Within crypto finance,
a cryptocurrency wallet
serves an important function.
A soft wallet is
one of these items.
actually a pseudonym,
meaning nothing is in
a physical wallet.
It is in fact
a software program that
stores the public and
private keys.
A soft wallet interacts with
the blockchain to enable
the holder to send and
receive digital currency.
A soft wallet can support
a single currency or
multiple currencies.
Another important part of
crypto finance is the exchange.
Cryptocurrency exchanges are
online trading platforms.
They facilitate the exchange
of a cryptocurrency for
fiat currency or a government
backed currency.
Similar to a traditional
stock exchange where buyers
and sellers trade based on
the current market place,
cryptocurrency exchanges
perform the same function.
It's important to remember that
the security of a cryptocurrency
exchange is vital.
In addition, the liquidity
of the exchange is crucial.
The more transactions are
performed on
an exchange, the better.
Another important dynamic within
the cryptocurrency finance world
is stable coins.
A stable coin is a cryptocurrency
with price stable
characteristics.
The stable coin is pegged to
something else like
the US dollar,
but it can also be linked to
a basket of currencies or
even an index like
the Consumer Price Index
in the United States.
Stable coins are important
because they can
potentially avoid
the price volatility that
many cryptocurrencies experience.
In addition to software wallets,
blockchain also includes
hardware wallets.
Again, these are very unlike
the traditional wallet
that we all
used to carry our cash.
Hardware wallets are
physical devices that store
private keys in a protected area
within an actual hardware device.
They are similar in
some ways to a paper wallet,
but they're intended
to reduce incidents of
large-scale
vulnerabilities and access
to the private key.
In addition,
many hardware wallets
provide some resistance
to computer viruses.
Within the blockchain
ecosystem and crypto finance,
the blockchain merchant is
a last but very important part
of the ecosystem.
What is a blockchain merchant?
A blockchain merchant is
simply a merchant that accepts
Bitcoin or another
cryptocurrency as payment.
In fact, you may have
noticed that now there are
many blockchain merchants and
many major retailers now
except cryptocurrency.
Again in thinking about
the blockchain ecosystem.
When we go beyond
the base layer of development,
the next important level is
crypto finance and
crypto FinTech.
When we say crypto FinTech
we mean businesses that
focus on the leveraging
and use of crypto assets.
We talked previously
about trading.
These platforms for exchanging
cryptocurrencies are also
an important part
of crypto FinTech.
In addition, insurance companies
operate in the crypto
Fintech space.
These businesses insure against
the theft of digital assets.
But one of the challenges
of operating in this space,
is that they don't actually know
much about their customers.
There's little data in this space
as compared to
traditional insurance.
So it's much harder for
insurance companies insure
you against the theft of
digital assets to do
calculations important
to their businesses.
Thus, crypto insurance companies
spend a lot of time scrutinizing
the security and storage
procedures for digital assets.
The types of coverage that
they provide varies greatly.
For example, they may
insure for theft of
payments but they may not
cover issues of hacking.
Crypto lending is
another important and growing
area of crypto FinTech.
Crypto lenders allow
individuals to
lend against their digital
assets as collateral.
For example, if one
wanted to take out
a $10,000 loan they might
pay an interest rate,
for example 15 percent.
But in the crypto space
the ratio of assets to
the loan is very important.
These companies have to
require a high amount of
assets in order to make
the loan, maybe 50 percent.
So for example, for
a $10,000 loan,
$20,000 worth of digital assets
might be required as collateral.
Finally, an important area of
crypto FinTech is investment.
Crypto investment funds undertake
cryptocurrency trading.
This may include
100 percent cryptocurrency
or they might mix
cryptocurrency with
other types of assets.
These investment funds operate
in a very diverse arena
and continue to grow and
change in their
dynamic over time.